.TH SYSLOG\-NG\-CTL "1" "September 2011" "syslog-ng" "syslog-ng manual"

.SH "NAME"
syslog-ng-ctl \- Statistics dumper and verboseness, debug and trace mode tweaker for syslog\-ng

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBsyslog\-ng\-ctl\fR \fI<command>\fR [options..]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
The \fBsyslog\-ng\-ctl\fR application is a utility that can be used
to enable/disable various syslog\-ng messages for troubleshooting
purposes, or to dump a table of statistics about processed messages.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.BI \-\-control = "socket"
.br
.BI \-c " socket"
.RS
.P
Specify the socket to use to connect to syslog\-ng. Only needed when
using a non\-standard location. On Debian systems, one usually does
not have to use this option.

Defaults to \fI/var/lib/syslog-ng/syslog-ng.ctl\fR.
.RE

.SH "COMMANDS"
.SS "Troubleshooting commands"
All the troubleshooting commands (\fIverbose\fR, \fIdebug\fR and
\fItrace\fR) use the \fBsyslog\-ng\-ctl\fR \fI<command>\fR
[\fB\-\-set\fR=\fIon\fR|\fIoff\fR] format. When the \fB\-\-set\fR
option is not specified, the command will print the current value.

All extra messages will appear either on \fBsyslog\-ng\fR's internal
source, or on its \fBstderr\fR if it was started with either the
\fI\-\-stderr\fR or \fI\-e\fR options.
.TP
.I verbose
.RS
Toggle verbose messages, or print the current setting.
.RE
.TP
.I trace
.RS
Toggle message tracing messages, or print the current setting. Tracing
will print information about how each and every message is being
processed.
.RE
.TP
.I debug
.RS
Toggle debug messages, or print the current setting. Do note that this
will result in very verbose logging!
.RE

.SS "Statistics"
The stats command can be used to dump a set of statistics about
processed messages in a CSV\-like format.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
For the full documentation of \fBsyslog-ng\fR, see \fBThe syslog-ng
Administrator Guide\fR, available from
.IP
.B http://www.balabit.com/support/documentation/
.PP
.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP
This manual page was written by Gergely Nagy
<algernon@madhouse-project.org>.
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
.PP
Copyright \(co 2011 Gergely Nagy
<algernon@madhouse-project.org>. Published under the GNU General
Public License version 3, or at your opinion, any later version as
published by the FSF.
