.TH syslog-ng.conf 5
.SH NAME
/etc/syslog-ng/syslog-ng.conf - syslog-ng configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP

The configuration file for \fBsyslog-ng\fP

A message route in syslog-ng is made up from three parts: a source, 
a destination and filtering rules. 

.SH SOURCES

You can declare source statements using the "source" keyword:

source <sourcename> { sourcedriver params; sourcedriver params; ... };

Sourcename is an identifier you'll use to refer to this group of messages. 
Sourcedriver is a method of getting a given message. The following drivers 
are available:

* file <filename> - reads messages from the given file

* unix-dgram <filename> - reads messages from the given AF_UNIX, SOCK_DGRAM socket (BSDi style)

* unix-stream <filename> - reads messages from the given AF_UNIX, SOCK_STREAM socket (Linux style)

* udp <ip>,<port> - network source using the UDP protocol. If you do not want to bind to a specific interface use 0.0.0.0.

* tcp <ip>,<port> - network source using the TCP protocol.

* sun-streams <filename> - local source used on Solaris systems

.SH DESTINATIONS

Destinations can be created using the destination keyword:

destination <destname> { destdriver params; destdriver params; ... ; };

* file <filename> - writes messages to the given file

* unix-dgram <filename> - writes messages to the given AF_UNIX, SOCK_DGRAM socket (BSDi style)

* unix-stream <filename> - writes messages to the given AF_UNIX, SOCK_STREAM socket (Linux style)

* udp <ip>,<port> - network destination using the UDP protocol

* tcp <ip>,<port> - network destination using the TCP protocol

* usertty <username> - sends log to the given user's terminal

.SH FILTERS

You can create filters using the filter keyword:

filter <filtername> { expression; };

Where expression is a simple boolean expression. You can use "and", "or" 
and "not" to connect builtin functions. Functions can be one of:

* facility(list of comma seperated facility names)

* level(list of comma seperated priority nammes OR a range separated by "..")

* program(regexp to match program name)

* host(regexp to match program name)

* match(regexp to match program name)

.SH LOG STATEMENTS

You can connect sources and destinations using the log statement:

log { source S1; source S2; ... filter F1; filter F2; ... destination D1; destination D2; ... };

Where Sx refers to one of the declared log sources, Fx one of the filters and 
Dx one of the destinations.

Filters are ANDed together.

.SH OPTIONS

You can specify several global options to syslog-ng in the options statement:

options { opt1; opt2; ... };

Where an option can be any of the following:


.TP
.B chain_hostnames(yes|no)
Enable or disable the chained hostname format.

.TP
.B long_hostnames(yes|no)
This is a deprecated alias for chain_hostnames().

.TP
.B keep_hostname(yes|no)
Specifies whether to trust hostname as it is included in the log message. If
keep_hostname is yes and there is a hostname in the message it is not
touched, otherwise it is always rewritten based on the information where the
message was received from.

.TP
.B use_dns(yes|no)
Enable or disable DNS usage.  syslog-ng blocks on DNS queries, so
enabling DNS may lead to a Denial of Service attack.  To prevent DoS,
protect your syslog-ng network endpoint with firewall rules, and make
sure that all hosts, which may get to syslog-ng is resolvable.

.TP
.B use_fqdn(yes|no)
Add Fully Qualified Domain Name instead of short hostname.

.TP
.B check_hostname(yes|no)
Enable or disable whether the hostname contains valid characters.

.TP
.B bad_hostname(regex)
A regexp which matches hostnames which should not be taken as such.

.TP
.B dns_cache(yes|no)
Enable or disable DNS cache usage.

.TP
.B dns_cache_expire(n)
Number of seconds while a successful lookup is cached.

.TP
.B dns_cache_expire_failed(n)
Number of seconds while a failed lookup is cached.

.TP
.B dns_cache_size(n)
Number of hostnames in the DNS cache.

.TP
.B create_dirs(yes|no)
Enable or disable directory creation for destination files.

.TP
.B dir_owner(uid)
User id.

.TP
.B dir_group(gid)
Group id.

.TP
.B dir_perm(perm)
Permission value (octal mask).

.TP
.B owner(uid)
User id for created files.

.TP
.B group(gid)
Group id for created files.

.TP
.B perm(perm)
Permission value for created files.

.TP
.B gc_busy_threshold(n)
Sets the threshold value for the garbage collector, when syslog-ng is
busy.  GC phase starts when the number of allocated objects reach this
number.  Default: 3000.

.TP
.B gc_idle_threshold(n)
Sets the threshold value for the garbage collector, when syslog-ng is
idle.  GC phase starts when the number of allocated objects reach this
number.  Default: 100.

.TP
.B log_fifo_size(n)
The number of lines fitting to the output queue. An output queue is present
for all destinations.

.TP
.B log_msg_size(n)
Maximum length of message in bytes (NOTE: some syslogd implementations have
a fixed limit of 1024 characters).

.TP
.B mark(n)
The number of seconds between two MARK lines.
NOTE: not implemented yet.

.TP
.B stats(n)
The number of seconds between two STATS messages.

.TP
.B sync(n)
The number of lines buffered before written to file
(can be overridden locally).

.TP
.B time_reap(n)
The time to wait before an idle destination file is closed.

.TP
.B time_reopen(n)
The time to wait before a died connection is reestablished.

.TP
.B use_time_recvd(yes|no)
This variable is used only for macro expansion where the meaning of the time
specific macros depend on this setting, however as there are separate macros
for referring to the received timestamp (R_ macros) and the log message timestamp (S_),
so using this value is not recommended.

.SH FILES
/etc/syslog-ng/syslog-ng.conf
.SH COPYRIGHT
syslog-ng and this file is Copyright (c) 1999-2004 BalaBit IT Ltd, portions
were contributed by Jose Pedro Oliveira.

.SH SEE ALSO
syslog-ng(8), syslogd(8)

