.TH SYSLOG-NG 8
.SH NAME
syslog-ng \- logs system messages
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B syslog-ng
[
.B \-dvV
] [
.B \-f
<\fIconfig-filename\fP>
] [
.B \-p
<\fIpid-filename\fP>
] [
.B \-C 
<\fIchroot-dir\fP>
]
.SH DESCRIPTION

NOTE: This file is not yet updated to syslog-ng 2.0, use the HTML documentation.

.PP
\fBsyslog-ng\fP reads and logs messages to the system console, log files,
other machines and/or users as specified by its configuration file.
.PP
The configuration file is read at startup and is reread after receipt
of a hangup (HUP) signal.  When reloading the configuration file, all
destination files are closed and reopened as appropriate. For more 
information about the configuration file, see syslog-ng.conf(5).
.PP
Typically messages are sent to \fBsyslog-ng\fP via a Unix domain socket
(\fB/dev/log\fP) or via UDP, to port 514 or to whatever \fBsyslog/udp\fP
is defined to be in \fI/etc/services\fP.  To receieve messages from the
kernel, \fB/dev/klog\fP is opened for reading.
.PP
Messages sent to \fBsyslog-ng\fP should be an entire line, prefixed by a
priority code in between '<' and '>'.  Definititions of the recognised
values can be found in the include file \fI<sys/syslog.h>\fP.
.PP
\fBsyslog-ng\fP can be configured to pass messages on to other \fBsyslog-ng's\fP
and when doing so, it sends the message on with the priority as a prefix.
.PP
It is not necessary to terminate a message with a line feed or carriage return.
.SH HASHING
.PP
NOTE: as of syslog-ng 1.1.11, hashing is not supported yet.

\fBsyslog-ng\fP supports keeping of hash values along side the actual log
file.  To initialize hashing for the first time, you will need to use the
program \fBgenh0\fP, which generates the initial hash for a log file based
on random salt and the passphrase you enter. The password (or pass phrase)
must be at least 20 characters and at most 128 characters. For security
reasons it is NOT saved in any file and IT SHOULD NOT be put in any file. 
Wiriting it down on paper, if you have to, is much more acceptable so long
as the paper is "secure".  The salt used is saved to
\fB/etc/syslog-ng/hashlog-filename.salt\fP and the result is saved to
\fBhashlog-filename.H0\fP.  As each line is received by
\fBsyslog-ng\fP, an matching entry is written to
\fBhashlog-filename.sha1\fP. You can use \fBcheckhash\fP program to check if
all the log entries are intact.
.PP
When \fBsyslog-ng\fP receives a HUP signal or is about to exit, it saves all
the hashing seeds out to the relevaant .H0 file.  From time to time,
\fBsyslog-ng\fP will also save all the current values as a "checkpoint".
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d
Set "debug mode".  Prints out various messages to aid in debugging and stops
it from becoming a daemon.  To activate debugging in the yacc parser, either
use this option twice or combine with \fB-v\fP.
.TP
.B \-f \0<filename>
Instead of reading the normal \fB/etc/syslog-ng/syslog-ng.conf\fP file for
configuration information, use the filename given instead.
.TP
.B \-p \0<filename>
Write the current PID information to the specified file.
.TP
.B \-v
Enable verbose mode.  Process will not become a daemon.  Prints out
fewer messages, compared to \fB-d\fP.
.TP
.B \-V
Print the version number.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
It is expected that \fBsyslog-ng\fP will run as root, however, if not running
on a priviledged port of it it owned its own log directories, etc, it might
run as a non-root user.
.SH SEE ALSO
logger(1), syslog(3), services(5), syslog.conf(5), syslog-ng.conf(5)
.SH FILES
/etc/syslog-ng/syslog-ng.conf
/etc/syslog-ng/filename.sha1
/etc/syslog-ng/filename.H0
/etc/syslog-ng/filename.salt
.br
/var/run/syslog.pid
.br
.SH BUGS
.PP
If you find any, please send email to me at bazsi@balabit.hu
