.TH dqtool 1 "18 December 2025" 4.10.2 "The dqtool tool manual page"
.SH NAME
.PP
dqtool \-\-\- Display the contents of a disk\-buffer file created with {{ site.product.short_name }}.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
dqtool [command] [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBNOTE:\fP The dqtool application is distributed with the syslog\-ng OSE
system logging application, and is usually part of the syslog\-ng OSE
package. The latest version of the syslog\-ng OSE application is
available at the syslog\-ng OSE page.
.PP
This manual page is only an abstract.
.PP
The dqtool application is a utility that can be used to display and
format the messages stored in a disk\-buffer file.
.SH THE CAT COMMAND
.PP
.RS
.nf
cat [options] [file]
.fi
.RE
.PP
Use the cat command to display the log messages stored in the
disk\-buffer (also called disk\-queue) file, and also information from the
header of the disk queue file. The messages are printed to the standard
output (stdout), so it is possible to use grep and other tools to find
particular log messages, for example, \fBdqtool cat /var/log/messages.lgs
|grep 192.168.1.1\fP\&.
.PP
The cat command has the following options:
.PP
\fB\fC\-\-debug\fR or \fB\fC\-d\fR
    Print diagnostic and debugging messages to stderr.
.PP
\fB\fC\-\-help\fR or \fB\fC\-h\fR
    Display a brief help message.
.PP
\fB\fC\-\-template=<template>\fR or \fB\fC\-t\fR
    Format the messages using the specified template.
.PP
\fB\fC\-\-verbose\fR or \fB\fC\-v\fR
    Print verbose messages to stderr.
.PP
\fB\fC\-\-version\fR or \fB\fC\-V\fR
    Display version information.
.SS EXAMPLE:
.PP
.RS
.nf
dqtool cat ../var/syslog\-ng\-00000.qf
.fi
.RE
.PP
The output looks like:
```config
.PP
.RS
Disk\-buffer state loaded;
filename='../var/syslog\-ng\-00000.qf', qout\fIlength='65', qbacklog\fPlength='0', qoverflow\fIlength='9205', qdisk\fPlength='0'
Mar  3 10:52:05 tristram localprg[1234]: seq: 0000011630, runid: 1267609923, stamp: 2010\-03\-03T10:52:05 PADDPADDPADDPADDPADDPADDPADDPADDPADDPADDPADDPADDPADDPADDPADDPADDPADDPADDPADDPADDPADDPADDPADDPADDPADDPADD
Mar  3 10:52:05 tristram localprg[1234]: seq: 0000011631, runid: 1267609923, stamp: 2010\-03\-03T10:52:05 PADDPADDPADDPADDPADDPADDPADDPADDPADDPADDPADDPADDPADDPADDPADDPADDPADDPADDPADDPADDPADDPADDPADDPADDPADDPADD
```
.RE
.SH THE RELOCATE COMMAND
.PP
.RS
.nf
relocate [options] [files]
.fi
.RE
.PP
Use the relocate command to move or rename disk\-buffer (also called
disk\-queue) files. Note that this option modifies the persist file. Stop
syslog\-ng OSE before using this command.
.PP
The relocate command has the following options:
.PP
\fB\fC\-\-all\fR or \fB\fC\-a\fR
    Relocate every disk\-buffer file that is listed in the syslog\-ng OSE
    persist file.
.PP
\fB\fC\-\-new_path\fR or \fB\fC\-n\fR
    The directory where you want to move the disk\-bufffer files. For
    example: /var/disk\-buffers
.PP
\fB\fC\-\-persist\fR or \fB\fC\-p\fR
    The path to the syslog\-ng OSE persist file. The relocate command
    automatically updates the entries of the disk\-buffer files in the
    persist file.
.SS EXAMPLES:
.PP
Relocate a single queue file:
.PP
.RS
.nf
dqtool relocate \-\-new_path /tmp/dq \-\-persist var/syslog\-ng.persist /tmp/syslog\-ng\-00000.rqf
.fi
.RE
.PP
Relocate multiple queue files:
.PP
.RS
.nf
dqtool relocate \-\-new_path /tmp/dq \-\-persist var/syslog\-ng.persist /tmp/syslog\-ng\-00000.rqf /tmp/syslog\-ng\-00001.rqf
.fi
.RE
.PP
Relocate every queue file:
.PP
.RS
.nf
dqtool relocate \-\-new_path /tmp/dq \-\-persist var/syslog\-ng.persist \-\-all
.fi
.RE
.SH FILES
.PP
/Users/hofi/Develop/Balabit/syslog-ng/build/install/bin/dqtool
.PP
\fBNOTE:\fP
If you experience any problems or need help with syslog\-ng OSE, see the \fIsyslog\-ng OSE Administration Guide\fP[1], or visit the \fIsyslog\-ng OSE mailing list\fP[2].
For news and notifications about syslog\-ng OSE, visit the \fIsyslog\-ng OSE blogs\fP[3].
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
This manual page was generated from the \fIsyslog\-ng OSE Administration Guide\fP[1], which was written by several contributors to whom we'd like to extend our sincere thanks.
.SH COPYRIGHT
.SH NOTES
.PP
[1] \fB\fCsyslog\-ng OSE Administration Guide\fR
    \[la]https://syslog-ng.github.io/admin-guide/README\[ra]
.PP
[2] \fB\fCsyslog\-ng OSE mailing list\fR
    \[la]https://lists.balabit.hu/mailman/listinfo/syslog-ng\[ra]
.PP
[3] \fB\fCsyslog\-ng OSE blogs\fR
    \[la]https://syslog-ng.com/blog/\[ra]
