.TH syslog\-ng.conf 5 "18 December 2025" 4.10.2 "The syslog\-ng.conf manual page"
.SH NAME
.PP
syslog\-ng.conf \- {{ site.product.short_name }} configuration file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
syslog\-ng.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This manual page is only an abstract.
.PP
The syslog\-ng OSE application is a flexible and highly scalable system
logging application. Typically, syslog\-ng OSE is used to manage log
messages and implement centralized logging, where the aim is to collect
the log messages of several devices on a single, central log server. The
different devices \- called syslog\-ng OSE clients \- all run syslog\-ng OSE,
and collect the log messages from the various applications, files, and
other sources. The clients send all important log messages to the remote
syslog\-ng OSE PE server, where the server sorts and stores them.
.SH BASIC CONCEPTS OF syslog\-ng OSE
.PP
The syslog\-ng OSE application reads incoming messages and forwards them
to the selected destinations. The syslog\-ng OSE application can receive
messages from files, remote hosts, and other sources.
.PP
Log messages enter syslog\-ng OSE in one of the defined sources, and are
sent to one or more destinations.
.PP
Sources and destinations are independent objects, log paths define what
syslog\-ng OSE does with a message, connecting the sources to the
destinations. A log path consists of one or more sources and one or more
destinations: messages arriving from a source are sent to every
destination listed in the log path. A log path defined in syslog\-ng OSE
is called a log statement.
.PP
Optionally, log paths can include filters. Filters are rules that select
only certain messages, for example, selecting only messages sent by a
specific application. If a log path includes filters, syslog\-ng OSE
sends only the messages satisfying the filter rules to the destinations
set in the log path.
.PP
Other optional elements that can appear in log statements are parsers
and rewriting rules. Parsers segment messages into different fields to
help processing the messages, while rewrite rules modify the messages by
adding, replacing, or removing parts of the messages.
.SH CONFIGURING syslog\-ng OSE
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
The main body of the configuration file consists of object
definitions: sources, destinations, logpaths define which log
message are received and where they are sent. All identifiers,
option names and attributes, and any other strings used in the
syslog\-ng OSE configuration file are case sensitive. Object definitions
(also called statements) have the following syntax:
.PP
.RS
.nf
type\-of\-the\-object identifier\-of\-the\-object {<parameters>};
.fi
.RE
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Type of the object: One of source, destination, log, filter,
parser, rewrite rule, or template.
.IP \(bu 2
Identifier of the object: A unique name identifying the object.
When using a reserved word as an identifier, enclose the
identifier in quotation marks (\[rs]"\[rs]").
.RE
.PP
All identifiers, attributes, and any other strings used in the
syslog\-ng OSE configuration file are case sensitive.
.PP
\fBTIP:\fP Use identifiers that refer to the type of the object they
identify. For example, prefix source objects with s_,
destinations with d_, and so on.
.PP
\fBNOTE:\fP Repeating a definition of an object (that is, defining the same
object with the same id more than once) is not allowed, unless
you use the @define allow\-config\-dups 1 definition in the
configuration file.
\- Parameters: The parameters of the object, enclosed in braces
    {parameters}.
\- Semicolon: Object definitions end with a semicolon (;).
.PP
For example, the following line defines a source and calls it
s_internal.
.PP
.RS
.nf
source s_internal { internal(); };
.fi
.RE
.PP
The object can be later referenced in other statements using its ID,
for example, the previous source is used as a parameter of the
following log statement:
.PP
.RS
.nf
log { source(s_internal); destination(d_file); };
.fi
.RE
.IP \(bu 2
The parameters and options within a statement are similar to
function calls of the C programming language: the name of the option
followed by a list of its parameters enclosed within brackets and
terminated with a semicolon.
.PP
.RS
.nf
option(parameter1, parameter2); option2(parameter1, parameter2);
.fi
.RE
.PP
For example, the file() driver in the following source statement has
three options: the filename (/var/log/apache/access.log),
follow\-freq(), and flags(). The follow\-freq() option also has a
parameter, while the flags() option has two parameters.
.PP
.RS
.nf
source s_tail { file("/var/log/apache/access.log"
follow\-freq(1) flags(no\-parse, validate\-utf8)); };
.fi
.RE
.PP
Objects may have required and optional parameters. Required
parameters are positional, meaning that they must be specified in a
defined order. Optional parameters can be specified in any order
using the \fB
.BR option (value)\fP 
format. If a parameter (optional or
required) is not specified, its default value is used. The
parameters and their default values are listed in the reference
section of the particular object.
.PP
Example: Using required and optional parameters
.PP
The unix\-stream() source driver has a single required argument: the
name of the socket to listen on. Optional parameters follow the
socket name in any order, so the following source definitions have
the same effect:
.PP
.RS
.nf
source s_demo_stream1 {
    unix\-stream("<path\-to\-socket>" 
    max\-connections(10) group(log)); 
};

source s_demo_stream2 {
    unix\-stream("<path\-to\-socket>" 
    group(log) max\-connections(10)); 
};
.fi
.RE
.IP \(bu 2
Some options are global options, or can be set globally, for
example, whether syslog\-ng OSE should use DNS resolution to resolve
IP addresses.
.PP
.RS
.nf
options { use\-dns(no); };
.fi
.RE
.IP \(bu 2
Objects can be used before definition.
.IP \(bu 2
Objects can be defined inline as well. This is useful if you use the
object only once (for example, a filter).
.IP \(bu 2
To add comments to the configuration file, start a line with # and
write your comments. These lines are ignored by syslog\-ng OSE.
.PP
.RS
.nf
# Comment: This is a stream source

source s_demo_stream {
unix\-stream("<path\-to\-socket>" max\-connections(10) group(log)); };
.fi
.RE
.RE
.PP
The syntax of log statements is as follows:
.PP
.RS
.nf
log {
    source(s1); source(s2); ...
    optional_element(filter1|parser1|rewrite1);
    optional_element(filter2|parser2|rewrite2);
    ...
    destination(d1); destination(d2); ...
    flags(flag1[, flag2...]);
};
.fi
.RE
.PP
The following log statement sends all messages arriving to the localhost
to a remote server.
.PP
.RS
.nf
source s_localhost { network(ip(127.0.0.1) port(1999)); };
destination d_tcp { network("10.1.2.3" port(1999) localport(999)); };
log { source(s_localhost); destination(d_tcp); };
.fi
.RE
.PP
The syslog\-ng OSE application has a number of global options governing
DNS usage, the timestamp format used, and other general points. Each
option may have parameters, similarly to driver specifications. To set
global options add an option statement to the syslog\-ng OSE
configuration file using the following syntax:
.PP
.RS
.nf
options { option1(params); option2(params); ... };
.fi
.RE
.PP
For example:
.PP
To disable domain name resolving, add the following line to the
syslog\-ng OSE configuration file:
.PP
.RS
.nf
options { use\-dns(no); };
.fi
.RE
.PP
The sources, destinations, and filters available in syslog\-ng OSE are
listed below.  
.SH TABLE 1: SOURCE DRIVERS AVAILABLE IN syslog\-ng OSE
.TS
allbox;
cb cb
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
.
Name	Description
file()	Opens the specified file and reads messages.
wildcard\-file()	Reads messages from multiple files and directories.
internal()	Messages generated internally in syslog\-ng OSE.
network()	Receives messages from remote hosts using the BSD\-syslog protocol over IPv4 and IPv6. Supports the TCP, UDP, and TLS network protocols.
nodejs()	Receives JSON messages from nodejs applications.
mbox()	Read e\-mail messages from local mbox files, and convert them to multi\-line log messages.
osquery()	Run osquery queries, and convert their results into log messages.
pacct()	Reads messages from the process accounting logs on Linux.
pipe()	Opens the specified named pipe and reads messages.
program()	Opens the specified application and reads messages from its standard output.
snmptrap()	Read and parse the SNMP traps of the Net\-SNMP\[rs]'s snmptrapd application.
sun\-stream(), sun\-streams()	Opens the specified STREAMS device on Solaris systems and reads incoming messages.
syslog()	Listens for incoming messages using the new IETF\-standard syslog protocol.
system()	Automatically detects which platform syslog\-ng OSE is running on, and collects the native log messages of that platform.
systemd\-journal()	Collects messages directly from the journal of platforms that use systemd.
systemd\-syslog()	Collects messages from the journal using a socket on platforms that use systemd.
unix\-dgram()	Opens the specified unix socket in SOCK_DGRAM mode and listens for incoming messages.
unix\-stream()	Opens the specified unix socket in SOCK_STREAM mode and listens for incoming messages.
stdin()	Collects messages from the standard input stream.
.TE
.SH TABLE 2: DESTINATION DRIVERS AVAILABLE IN syslog\-ng OSE
.TS
allbox;
cb cb
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
.
Name	Description
amqp()	Publishes messages using the AMQP (Advanced Message Queuing Protocol).
elasticsearch\-http	Sends messages to an Elasticsearch server.
file()	Writes messages to the specified file.
graphite()	Sends metrics to a Graphite server to store numeric time\-series data.
graylog2()	Sends syslog messages to Graylog.
hdfs()	Sends messages into a file on a Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS) node.
http()	Sends messages over the HTTP protocol. There are two different implementations of this driver: a Java\-based http driver, and an http driver without Java.
kafka()	Publishes log messages to the Apache Kafka message bus, where subscribers can access them.
loggly()	Sends log messages to the Loggly Logging\-as\-a\-Service provider.
logmatic()	Sends log messages to the Logmatic.io Logging\-as\-a\-Service provider.
mongodb()	Sends messages to a MongoDB database.
network()	Sends messages to a remote host using the BSD\-syslog protocol over IPv4 and IPv6. Supports the TCP, UDP, and TLS network protocols.
pipe()	Writes messages to the specified named pipe.
program()	Forks and launches the specified program, and sends messages to its standard input.
redis()	Sends messages as name\-value pairs to a Redis key\-value store.
riemann()	Sends metrics or events to a Riemann monitoring system.
smtp()	Sends e\-mail messages to the specified recipients.
sql()	Sends messages into an SQL database. In addition to the standard syslog\-ng OSE packages, the sql() destination requires database\-specific packages to be installed.
stomp()	Sends messages to a STOMP server.
syslog()	Sends messages to the specified remote host using the IETF\-syslog protocol. The IETF standard supports message transport using the UDP, TCP, and TLS networking protocols.
unix\-dgram()	Sends messages to the specified unix socket in SOCK_DGRAM style (BSD).
unix\-stream()	Sends messages to the specified unix socket in SOCK_STREAM style (Linux).
usertty()	Sends messages to the terminal of the specified user, if the user is logged in.
.TE
.SH TABLE 3: FILTER FUNCTIONS AVAILABLE IN syslog\-ng OSE
.TS
allbox;
cb cb
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
l l
.
Name	Description
facility()	
filter()	
host()	
inlist()	
level() or priority()	
match()	
message()	
netmask()	
program()	
source()	
tags()	
.TE
.SH FILES
.PP
/Users/hofi/Develop/Balabit/syslog-ng/build/install/
.PP
/Users/hofi/Develop/Balabit/syslog-ng/build/install/etc/syslog\-ng.conf
.PP
\fBNOTE:\fP
If you experience any problems or need help with syslog\-ng OSE, see the \fIsyslog\-ng OSE Administration Guide\fP[1], or visit the \fIsyslog\-ng OSE mailing list\fP[2].
For news and notifications about syslog\-ng OSE, visit the \fIsyslog\-ng OSE blogs\fP[3].
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
This manual page was generated from the \fIsyslog\-ng OSE Administration Guide\fP[1], which was written by several contributors to whom we'd like to extend our sincere thanks.
.SH COPYRIGHT
.SH NOTES
.PP
[1] \fB\fCsyslog\-ng OSE Administration Guide\fR
    \[la]https://syslog-ng.github.io/admin-guide/README\[ra]
.PP
[2] \fB\fCsyslog\-ng OSE mailing list\fR
    \[la]https://lists.balabit.hu/mailman/listinfo/syslog-ng\[ra]
.PP
[3] \fB\fCsyslog\-ng OSE blogs\fR
    \[la]https://syslog-ng.com/blog/\[ra]
